Modularized version of PR 60936 (#61428)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oadp-ceph-cephfs-restore.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/backing_up_and_restoring/backing-up-applications.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "cephfs"]
:cephfs:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "split"]
:split:
endif::[]

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-ceph-cephfs-restore_{context}"]

ifdef::cephfs[]
= Restoring data using OADP 1.2 Data Mover and CephFS storage
You can use OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) 1.2 Data Mover to restore data using CephFS storage if the shallow copy feature of CephFS storage was enabled for the back up procedure. The shallow copy feature is not used in the restore procedure.

> endif::cephs[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
endif::cephfs[]
```

ifdef::split[]

> = Restoring data using OADP 1.2 Data Mover and split valoumes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Restoring data using OADP 1.2 Data Mover and split volumes
```

Author: Fixed. Thanks!

You can use OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) 1.2 Data Mover to restore data in an environment that has split volumes, if the shallow copy feature of CephFS storage was enabled for the back up procedure. The shallow copy feature is not used in the restore procedure.
endif::split[]

.Procedure

. Delete the application namespace by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete vsb -n <app_namespace> --all
----

. Delete any `VolumeSnapshotContent` CRs that were created during backup by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc delete volumesnapshotcontent --all
----

> . Create a `Restore` CR similar to the following:

Reviewer 3: Other examples in this doc set say "as in the following example". We might want to choose one or the other for consistency.

```suggestion
. Create a `Restore` CR as in the following example:
```

Reviewer 4: In my reviews, I have consistently gotten the feedback to use either "similar to the following example" or "as shown in the following example." But I think consistency is probably the most important factor here.

+
.Example `Restore` CR
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: velero.io/v1
kind: Restore
metadata:

>   name: <restore-name>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  name: <restore_name>
```

>   namespace: <protected-ns>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  namespace: <protected_ns>
```

spec:

>   backupName: <previous-backup-name>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  backupName: <previous_backup_name>
```

----

. Monitor the progress of the `VolumeSnapshotRestore` CRs by doing the following:
.. To check the progress of all the `VolumeSnapshotRestore` CRs, run the following command:
+
[source, terminal]
----

> $ oc get vsr -n <app-ns>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ oc get vsr -n <app_ns>
```

----

.. To check the progress of a specific `VolumeSnapshotRestore` CR, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get vsr <vsr-name> -n <app-ns> -ojsonpath="{.status.phase}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ oc get vsr <vsr_name> -n <app_ns> -ojsonpath="{.status.phase}
```

----

. Verify that your application data has been restored by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get route <route-name> -n <app-ns> -ojsonpath="{.spec.host}"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ oc get route <route_name> -n <app_ns> -ojsonpath="{.spec.host}"
```
